# Codebook
This codebook describes the data sets that are generated by the sript 'run_analysis.R'. In particular, it describes the original data sources and the final two tables that are generated. The original data can be found here: 

Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones DataSet
     as published by: 
     Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, and Luca Oneto; 
     DITEN - Universitá degli Studi di Genova
     https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

## Generalities
The original data sets whose processing results in the data sets to be described here como from above site.  These data sets contain the observations of experiments that consisted of reading smartphone sensor data as an individual was performing one of six possible activities. A total of 30 individuals participated in the experimentations, which were randomly partitioned in two sets: the training set and the test set. At each instance of the experiments several measurements were collected, each consisting of sensor values for 128 different variables. From each sequence of the 128 values measured on a particular instance, after proper processing, a sequence of 561 new values was obtained. These 561 measurements corresponding to each instance of the experimentations represent the core of these data sets. The data of interest is distributed among several files as described next. 


 * features.txt        - List of features that were obtained after proper processing of the values measured from device sensors at each instance of the experiments. The file contains one feature name per line, for a total of 561 lines. 
 * activity_labels.txt - List of activities that were performed, including the name of each, as well as an id number
 * X_train.txt - Contains a list of 7352 sequences (one sequence per line), each containing the 562 measurements that were derived from each instance of the experimentation. Each such sequence corresponds to the results derived at one particular instance in which a particular subject was performing a particular activity. 
* y_train.txt - contains  a list of 7352 numbers in the range 1..6, identifying the particular activity that was being performed at a particular instance of the experimentations. The i-th number in this file corresponds to the activity that was performed at that instance of the experiments to which the i-th sequence in file X_train.txt corresponds to. 
* subject_train.txt - Contains a list of 7532 numbers, in the range 1..30, each identifying a particular subject (person participating in the experimentations). The i-th number in this file identifies the subject who was involved in the particular experimentation instance to which the i-th sequence in file X_train.txt corresponds to. 
* X_test.txt - Description is analogous to that of X_train.txt but for the testing portion of the data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to.
* y_test.txt  - Description is analogous to that of y_train.txt but for the testing portion of the data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to.
* subject_test.txt - Description is analogous to that of subject_train.txt but for the testing portion of the data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to.


All the above files are used as input in R script named “run_analysis.R”. The script generates merges the training and test data sets to form a tidy single tidy data set consisting of only one table. For each instance of the experimentation, the table contains the subject involved on that particular instance (column 1), the activity that the subject was performing at that instance (column 2), and the value that for than instance was derived on each of the following 66 measurements out of the 561 in the original data sets (columns 3:68): 
  "tBodyAcc-mean()-X"           "tBodyAcc-mean()-Y"           "tBodyAcc-mean()-Z"          
  "tGravityAcc-mean()-X"        "tGravityAcc-mean()-Y"        "tGravityAcc-mean()-Z"       
 "tBodyAccJerk-mean()-X"       "tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y"       "tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z"      
"tBodyGyro-mean()-X"          "tBodyGyro-mean()-Y"          "tBodyGyro-mean()-Z"         
"tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-X"      "tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Y"      "tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Z"     
"tBodyAccMag-mean()"          "tGravityAccMag-mean()"       "tBodyAccJerkMag-mean()"     
"tBodyGyroMag-mean()"         "tBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()"     "fBodyAcc-mean()-X"          
"fBodyAcc-mean()-Y"           "fBodyAcc-mean()-Z"           "fBodyAccJerk-mean()-X"      
"fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y"       "fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z"       "fBodyGyro-mean()-X"         
"fBodyGyro-mean()-Y"          "fBodyGyro-mean()-Z"          "fBodyAccMag-mean()"         
"fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-mean()"  "fBodyBodyGyroMag-mean()"     "fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()"
"tBodyAcc-std()-X"            "tBodyAcc-std()-Y"            "tBodyAcc-std()-Z"           
 "tGravityAcc-std()-X"         "tGravityAcc-std()-Y"         "tGravityAcc-std()-Z"        
"tBodyAccJerk-std()-X"        "tBodyAccJerk-std()-Y"        "tBodyAccJerk-std()-Z"       
"tBodyGyro-std()-X"           "tBodyGyro-std()-Y"           "tBodyGyro-std()-Z"          
"tBodyGyroJerk-std()-X"       "tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Y"       "tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Z"      
"tBodyAccMag-std()"           "tGravityAccMag-std()"        "tBodyAccJerkMag-std()"      
"tBodyGyroMag-std()"          "tBodyGyroJerkMag-std()"      "fBodyAcc-std()-X"           
"fBodyAcc-std()-Y"            "fBodyAcc-std()-Z"            "fBodyAccJerk-std()-X"       
"fBodyAccJerk-std()-Y"        "fBodyAccJerk-std()-Z"        "fBodyGyro-std()-X"          
"fBodyGyro-std()-Y"           "fBodyGyro-std()-Z"           "fBodyAccMag-std()"          
"fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-std()"   "fBodyBodyGyroMag-std()"      "fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-std()" 


These measurements correspond to mean and standard deviation values that were determined for other measurements at instances of the experimentations. Hence this first table has 7352 rows and 68 columns, where columns 3:68 respective correspond to the the measurements listed above. They all correspond to real number values representing the measured number of units for the particular measurement that each corresponds to. 

## Description of Data Sets Being Generated
The following two tables are generated: 
* final_table1 - this table is left at the workspace of the R session once the script ends execution. 
* final_table2 - this table is included as part of this repo. It is generated from the data in final_table1. In particular, it contains the average value of each one of the variables corresponding to measurements stored in final_table1, for each activity and each subject. Since there are 6 possible activities, and 30 subjects, and each of the subjects performed all the six activities at one point, then this file contains 30x6=180 rows and 68 columns. Their particular descriptions is given in more details next. The content of this table is saved in file “average_of_variables.txt”, which is included as part of this repo. 


### Table 1: final_table1. The final names of each one of the columns in this table are: 
1. subject      : its values are single integer numbers in the range from 1 to 30, each identifying the subject  that participated in the experimentation instance for which the other data in the particular row corresponds to.  
2. act_name   : its values are strings representing the name of the activity that was being performed at the moment of the particular experimentation instance that the particular row in the table corresponds to. The possible values are: “WAKING”, “WALKING_UPSTAIRS”, “WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS”, “SITTING”, “STANDING”, and “LAYING”.        
3. tBodyAcc_mean_X : its values are the values of            tBodyAcc-mean()-X from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g.
4. tBodyAcc_mean_Y : its values are the values of            tBodyAcc-mean()-Y from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to.  Units: standard gravity units g.
5. tBodyAcc_mean_Z : its values are the values of            tBodyAcc-mean()-Z from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g.
6. tGravityAcc_mean_X : its values are the values of         tGravityAcc-mean()-X from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g.
7. tGravityAcc_mean_Y : its values are the values of         tGravityAcc-mean()-Y from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g.
8. tGravityAcc_mean_Z : its values are the values of         tGravityAcc-mean()-Z from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g.
9. tBodyAccJerk_mean_X : its values are the values of        tBodyAccJerk-mean()-X from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g/s (s=seconds).
10. tBodyAccJerk_mean_Y : its values are the values of        tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g/s (s=seconds).
11. tBodyAccJerk_mean_Z : its values are the values of        tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g/s (s=seconds).
12. tBodyGyro_mean_X : its values are the values of           tBodyGyro-mean()-X from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s (s=seconds).
13. tBodyGyro_mean_Y : its values are the values of           tBodyGyro-mean()-Y from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s (s=seconds).
14. tBodyGyro_mean_Z : its values are the values of           tBodyGyro-mean()-Z from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s (s=seconds).
15. tBodyGyroJerk_mean_X : its values are the values of       tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-X from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s^2 (s=seconds).
16. tBodyGyroJerk_mean_Y : its values are the values of       tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Y from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s^2 (s=seconds).
17. tBodyGyroJerk_mean_Z : its values are the values of       tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Z from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s^2 (s=seconds).
18. tBodyAccMag_mean : its values are the values of           tBodyAccMag-mean() from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g.
19. tGravityAccMag_mean : its values are the values of        tGravityAccMag-mean() from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g.
20. tBodyAccJerkMag_mean : its values are the values of       tBodyAccJerkMag-mean() from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g/s (s=seconds).
21.  tBodyGyroMag_mean : its values are the values of          tBodyGyroMag-mean() from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s (s=seconds).
22. tBodyGyroJerkMag_mean : its values are the values of      tBodyGyroJerkMag-mean() from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s^2 (s=seconds).
23. fBodyAcc_mean_X : its values are the values of            fBodyAcc-mean()-X from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g.
24. fBodyAcc_mean_Y : its values are the values of            fBodyAcc-mean()-Y from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g.
25. fBodyAcc_mean_Z : its values are the values of            fBodyAcc-mean()-Z from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g.
26. fBodyAccJerk_mean_X : its values are the values of        fBodyAccJerk-mean()-X from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g/s (s=seconds).
27. fBodyAccJerk_mean_Y : its values are the values of        fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g/s (s=seconds).
28. fBodyAccJerk_mean_Z : its values are the values of        fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g/s (s=seconds).
29. fBodyGyro_mean_X : its values are the values of           fBodyGyro-mean()-X from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s (s=second).
30. fBodyGyro_mean_Y : its values are the values of           fBodyGyro-mean()-Y from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s (s=second).
31. fBodyGyro_mean_Z : its values are the values of           fBodyGyro-mean()-Z from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s (s=second).
32. fBodyAccMag_mean : its values are the values of           fBodyAccMag-mean() from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s (s=second).
33. fBodyBodyAccJerkMag_mean : its values are the values of   fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-mean() from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g/s (s=seconds).
34. fBodyBodyGyroMag_mean : its values are the values of      fBodyBodyGyroMag-mean() from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s (s=seconds).
35. fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag_mean : its values are the values of  fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-mean() from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s^2 (s=seconds).
36. tBodyAcc_std_X : its values are the values of             tBodyAcc-std()-X from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g.
37. tBodyAcc_std_Y : its values are the values of             tBodyAcc-std()-Y from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g.
38. tBodyAcc_std_Z : its values are the values of             tBodyAcc-std()-Z from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g.
39. tGravityAcc_std_X : its values are the values of          tGravityAcc-std()-X from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g.
40. tGravityAcc_std_Y : its values are the values of          tGravityAcc-std()-Y from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g.
41. tGravityAcc_std_Z : its values are the values of          tGravityAcc-std()-Z from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g.
42. tBodyAccJerk_std_X : its values are the values of         tBodyAccJerk-std()-X from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g/s (s=seconds).
43. tBodyAccJerk_std_Y : its values are the values of         tBodyAccJerk-std()-Y from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g/s (s=seconds).
44. tBodyAccJerk_std_Z : its values are the values of         tBodyAccJerk-std()-Z from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g/s (s=seconds).
45. tBodyGyro_std_X : its values are the values of            tBodyGyro-std()-X from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s (s=seconds).
46. tBodyGyro_std_Y : its values are the values of            tBodyGyro-std()-Y from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s (s=seconds).
47. tBodyGyro_std_Z : its values are the values of            tBodyGyro-std()-Z from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s (s=seconds).
48. tBodyGyroJerk_std_X : its values are the values of        tBodyGyroJerk-std()-X from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s^2 (s=seconds).
49. tBodyGyroJerk_std_Y : its values are the values of        tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Y from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s^2 (s=seconds).
50. tBodyGyroJerk_std_Z : its values are the values of        tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Z from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s^2 (s=seconds).
51. tBodyAccMag_std : its values are the values of            tBodyAccMag-std() from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravitational units g.
52. tGravityAccMag_std : its values are the values of         tGravityAccMag-std() from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g.
53. tBodyAccJerkMag_std : its values are the values of        tBodyAccJerkMag-std() from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g/s (s=seconds).
54. tBodyGyroMag_std : its values are the values of           tBodyGyroMag-std() from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s (s=second).
55. tBodyGyroJerkMag_std : its values are the values of       tBodyGyroJerkMag-std() from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s^2 (s=seconds).
56. fBodyAcc_std_X : its values are the values of             fBodyAcc-std()-X from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g.
57. fBodyAcc_std_Y : its values are the values of             fBodyAcc-std()-Y from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g.
58. fBodyAcc_std_Z : its values are the values of             fBodyAcc-std()-Z from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g.
59. fBodyAccJerk_std_X : its values are the values of         fBodyAccJerk-std()-X from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g/s (s=seconds).
60. fBodyAccJerk_std_Y : its values are the values of         fBodyAccJerk-std()-Y from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g/s (s=seconds).
61. fBodyAccJerk_std_Z : its values are the values of         fBodyAccJerk-std()-Z from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g/s (s=seconds).
62. fBodyGyro_std_X : its values are the values of            fBodyGyro-std()-X from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s (s=second).
63. fBodyGyro_std_Y : its values are the values of            fBodyGyro-std()-Y from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s (s=second).
64. fBodyGyro_std_Z : its values are the values of            fBodyGyro-std()-Z from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s  (s=second).
65. fBodyAccMag_std : its values are the values of            fBodyAccMag-std() from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g.
66. fBodyBodyAccJerkMag_std : its values are the values of    fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-std() from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: standard gravity units g/s^2 (s=seconds).
67. fBodyBodyGyroMag_std : its values are the values of       fBodyBodyGyroMag-std() from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s (s=second).
68. fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag_std : its values are the values of   fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-std() from the original data at the particular instance of the experimentation that the row corresponds to. Units: radians/s^2 (s=seconds).



### Table 2: final_table2. This table has one column for each column in final_table1. They are as follows.
* The first column is the subject, an integer value in range 1..30. Each one of these values identify a participant in the experimentations. 
* The second column is act_name, whose possible values are the names of the activities (“WAKING”, “WALKING_UPSTAIRS”, “WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS”, “SITTING”, “STANDING”, “LAYING”). 
* In each row of this table, the values in columns 3 to 68 correspond to average of all the values in the same column in final_table1 that were measured for the particular subject in col 1 while performing the particular activity in col 2. 
* The name of each one of these columns is the same name as the corresponding column in final_table1 but having the prefix “avg_” added (so, if the i-th column in final_table1 has name x, then the i-th column in final_table2 has name avg_x, for i=3…64).
* Measurements on each column (3:68) have the same unit as those in the same columns in final_table1. The table final_table2 contains 180 columns and 68 columns. 

This table is included in this repo as the content of the file “average_of_variables.txt”.

